Scrum - Rituals Workbook






Iterative Time-box Activities
Analyze
	Design
	Construct
	Integrate
	Test
	









Quality of an Iteration
Produces a usable, working Increment, meets the Definition of Done, aligns with the Sprint Goal, and the quality is built into the work, not added at the end.
	

Quality of Outcome Determination
Determined by the Definition of Done (DoD) whether the Increment is potentially releasable, meets acceptable criteria, delivers value to stakeholders and is reviewed during the Sprint Review.
	





Sprint definition
A time-boxed iteration (usually 1-4 weeks). During a Sprint, the team: builds a product increment and works towards a Sprint Goal. Scope may be clarified, but the Sprint Goal remains stable.












	 


Determination of length of sprint.
Chosen by the Scrum Team, is fixed and consistent for predictability and is typically 1 to 4 weeks. Shorter Sprints reduce risk, increase feedback and longer Sprints may delay learnig and value delivery. 














	

Sprint Rituals 
Sprint Planning Meeting


Sprint Planning
Daily Stand-ups
Develop work










Sprint Review














Sprint Retrospective
	

Beginning of every sprint
Designated time every day
Team members perform work every day to move sprint forward towards achieving the sprint goal

A scheduled meeting where the completed increment is demonstrated to stakeholders and feedback about increment viability is received by the team


The final meeting of a sprint where team members evaluate how well they performed as a team in this sprint. YThe goal of this meeting is to look for ways that the team can improve their productivity and increase their velocity
	Estimation


The act of determining (guessing) the expected size of something.


	In Scrum, estimating helps to set expectations as to the amount of work that can be performed or the length of time until something is finished.


	



   3 types of estimation                         When this occurs                 Unit of measure
Portfolio Backlog
	During strategic planning and roadmapping (before team level work)
	High level estimates (T-shirt sizes, Epics, or cost ranges)
	Product Backlog
	During Product Backlog Refinement
	Story Points
	Sprint Backlog Tasks
	During Sprint Planning and throughout the Sprint
	Time (hour or days)
	







Scrum Roles Involved in Estimation


  
Planning Poker                                                         Triangulation


































Ideal day / Ideal hour


The amount of time a task would take with no interruptions and assumes no meetings, emails, blockers, only full focus.
	Problems with Ideal estimation


Unrealistic in real work environments because it ignores meetings, context switching, dependencies and leads to over commitment, missed deadlines and frustration and encourages false precision.
	



Daily Standup
Purpose
Inspect progress toward the Sprint Goal, identify impediments early anf align the teams plan for the next 24 hours.
	3 Questions


What have you done since the last meeting?


What are you planning to do before the next meeting? 


Do you experience any obstacles?


	Rules


Timed-boxed to 15 minutes
Happens every day of the Sprint
Developers lead it
Focused on the Sprint Goal
Side discussion happen after the meeting
Same time and place every day
	





Pair Programming 


Collective code ownership!
All team members understand the code.


Two team members; one task.
Driver and navigator.


Constant reflection (real-time reviewing).


Reduction of noise.


	

Sprint Review Meeting
Purpose
Inspect the increment completed during the Sprint, gather feedback from stakeholders, determine what to do next with the Product Backlog, ensure the product is moving toward the Product Goal.




	Participants


Scrum Team: Product Owner, Developers, Scrum Master
Stakeholders: customers, users, business reps, sponsors
	Timing


Held at the end of the Sprint, time-boxed up to 4 hours for a 1 month Sprint and shorter Sprints shorter reviews.
	Location


In person or virtual, wherever the stakeholders can easily attend and often held in the same location as other Scrum events for consistency.
	Expected Outcomes


Shared understanding of what was completed and what was not completed. Feedback captured, Product Backlog updated or reprioritized and agreement on next steps and future direction.
	



Sprint Retrospective Meeting 
Last activity in a sprint.


3 hours max.


Reflect on sprint.


Improvements of process for future.


Review ‘Definition of Done.’
	

	

	

	

	

Ritual Timing 
Sprint Duration
	1 month
	Daily Stand-up
	15 minutes
	Spring Planning
	8 hours
	Spring Review
	4 hours
	Sprint Retrospective
	3 hours