Scrum - Manifesto Workbook
Problems with traditional (Waterfall) development. 


The waterfall method is inflexible, slow to adapt to change, and often reveals problems too late because feedback and testing happen near the end of the project.
	

Agile Principles
1.Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.


	2.Welcome changing requirements even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customers competitive advantage.
	3.Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months with a preference to the shorter time scale.
	4.Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
	5.Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need and trust them to get the job done.
	6.The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face to face conversation. 
	7.Working software the the primary measurement of progress.
	8.Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
	9.Continuous attention to excellence and good design enhances agility.
	10. Simplicity, the art of maximizing the amount of work not done is essential.
	11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self organizing teams.
	12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective and then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly. 
	



Agile Manifesto Statement of Values 
  
We Value Left Column        
Individuals and Interactions
	Working Product
	Customer Collaboration
	Responding to change
	



Over the Right Column
Processes and Tools
	Comprehensive and Documentation
	Contract Negotiation
	Following a plan
	

Agile Framework Attributes
Focus on People
	Expect professionalism to be used to produce high quality outcomes.
	Working Software
	Agile aims to deliver high-quality working 
(functioning with needed functionality) software products.
	Flexibility
	Agility: The ability to adjust to changing conditions.




	Customer Involvement
	Customers or User representatives are expected to be involved, give opinions and feedback, and help to prioritize next steps.


	Multi 
disciplinary cooperating teams
	Each Scrum team must have specific skills to successfully deliver the project.  By having each member with a broad but shallow understanding of many topics and a deep understanding of one or two topics (for which they will be considered the expert).  This type of ability/skill-set distribution is called a T-shaped skill set.  Enterprises always look for a T-shaped skill set model when selecting development team members.


	Trust
	Trust is the basic ingredient to be able to deliver the requested quality.
	

Agile Frameworks




1. Scrum 
2. Kanban 
3. Extreme Programming (XP) 
4. Feature Driven Development (FDD) 
5. Crystal 
6. Dynamic System Development Method (DSDM) 7.Rapid Application Development 
7. Adaptive Software Development (ASD) 
8. Disciplined Agile (DA) 
9. Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) 
10. Large-Scale Scrum (LeSS) 
11. Lean Software Development (LSD) 


































Methodology
	Framework
	* Scrum has no exhaustive and formal prescriptions on how to design and plan the work, actions, and behaviors of all players involved in product development against time.
* Scrum is also not a methodology.




	Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps teams and organizations generate value through adaptive solutions. It is ideal for complex product development, and is iterative and incremental.
  

	



Roles
	Development team, scrum master, product owner
	Rituals
	  

	Artifacts
	  

	Rules
	Rules define prescribed behavior or a control mechanism that is intended to be followed.